The Audio Narrative project was definitely a unique experience as it was something extremely new to me. I would say it was unique not because I haven't done an audio narrative before, but for how "loose" the guidelines were. In other words, we didn't have to do a narrative on a certain topic; it could be whatever we wanted, and I loved that.

At first, I wasn't sure what exactly I wanted to do with my audio narrative when we were first assigned the project, but as I was lying in bed later that day, I figured I wanted to make it about something I very much enjoy: walking. Walking specifically came to mind because I hear so many sounds when I'm outside walking including a simple gust of wind to kids playing on a playground. However, with my audio narrative, I wanted to add a little twist and make an interesting story rather than just me walking.

For my project, I had it begin with simply a character walking, but added a "horror-esque" twist in the middle with the main character being chased by an unknown figure, and then nearly dying only to find out it was their friend playing a prank on them in the end.

Now to address what exactly I did for this project. Right away, as for any project, I looked at the baseline requirements and ensured that I met them. First, I recorded myself walking on snow because that was the name of the story. Then I grabbed some sounds from the internet, with permission of course and properly cited, to meet that baseline requirement. Once I gathered all the sounds, I was able to make my story with overlapping sounds and a length of over 2 minutes. I also made sure to meet all the deadlines and make sure I included all the appropriate files (.aup3, .mp3, README, etc.).

Meeting the baseline requirements was not enough for me. This is not because I wanted a grade better than a B, but rather because I have never been assigned a project where we were actually rewarded for taking risks that could potentially lessen the overall quality of our work, so I went ahead and did that. For example, I've listened to songs that are slowed and reverbed on youtube before, but have never added reverb to a song, so I went ahead and added some reverb to the background tracks of my project. This was not simply for trying something new, but because when I listen to songs with reverb, it makes it more like I am "in" the song, if that makes any sense. So with that, I wanted to make the listener feel as though they were in my narrative. I also added fade-ins and outs where appropriate to indicate scene changes (i.e. the student passing out and regaining then consciousness).

Another effect I used was the left and right pan. When the branch breaks and the student is being chased, I have the branch break to the back left of him. I made it to the left because left is historically symbolic of something being "sinister," and this thing that is chasing him is unknown, and well, sinister. Then, when the student realizes it is his friend and they walk off together in the end, I have his friend walking to the right of him to symbolize that his friend is no longer something that is sinister. It's not really something that's obvious, but a little detail I placed in my narrative.
